federalist 60
the same subject continued concerning
the power of congress to regulate the
election of members from the new york
packet
tuesday february 26 1788 hamilton
to the people of the state of new york
we have seen that an uncontrollable
power over the elections to the federal
government could not without hazard be
committed to the state legislatures let
us now see what would be the danger on
the other side that is from confiding
the ultimate right of regulating its own
elections to the union itself
it is not pretended that this right
would ever be used for the exclusion of
any state from its share in the
representation
the interest of all would in this
respect at least be the security of all
but it is alleged that it might be
employed in such a manner as to promote
the election of some favorite class of
men in exclusion of others by confining
the places of election to particular
districts and rendering it impracticable
to the citizens at large to partake in
the choice
of all chimerical suppositions this
seems to be the most chimerical
on the one hand no rational calculation
of probabilities would lead us to
imagine that the disposition which a
conducts so violent and extraordinary
would imply could ever find its way into
the national councils and on the other
it may be concluded with certainty that
if so improper a spirit should ever gain
admittance into them it would display
itself in a form altogether different
and far more decisive
the improbability of the attempt may be
satisfactorily inferred from this single
reflection that it could never be made
without causing an immediate revolt of
the great body of the people headed and
directed by the state governments
it is not difficult to conceive that
this characteristic right of freedom may
in certain turbulent and fractious
seasons be violated in respect to a
particular class of citizens by a
victorious and overbearing majority but
that so fundamental a privilege in a
country so situated and enlightened
should be invaded to the prejudice of
the great mass of the people by the
deliberate policy of the government
without occasioning a popular revolution
is altogether inconceivable and
incredible
in addition to this general reflection
there are considerations of a more
precise nature which forbid all
apprehension on the subject
the dissimilarity in the ingredients
which will compose the national
government and still more in the manner
in which they will be brought into
action in its various branches must form
a powerful obstacle to a concert of
views in any partial scheme of elections
there is sufficient diversity in the
state of property in the genius manners
and habits of the people in different
parts of the union to occasion a
material diversity of disposition in
their representatives toward the
different ranks and conditions in
society and though an intimate
intercourse under the same government
will promote a gradual assimilation in
some of these respects yet there are
causes as well physical as moral which
may in a greater or less degree
permanently nourish different
propensities and inclinations in this
respect
but the circumstance which will be
likely to have the greatest influence in
the matter will be the dissimilar modes
of constituting the several component
parts of the government
the house of representatives being to be
elected immediately by the people the
senate by the state legislatures the
president by electors chosen for that
purpose by the people there would be
little probability of a common interest
to cement these different branches in a
predilection for any particular class of
electors
as to the senate it is impossible that
any regulation of time and manner which
is all that is proposed to be submitted
to the national government in respect to
that body can affect the spirit which
will direct the choice of its members
the collective sense of the state
legislatures can never be influenced by
extraneous circumstances of that sort a
consideration which alone ought to
satisfy us that the discrimination
apprehended would never be attempted
for what inducement could the senate
have to concur in a preference in which
itself would not be included
or to what purpose would it be
established in reference to one branch
of the legislature if it could not be
extended to the other
the composition of the one would in this
case counteract that of the other and we
can never suppose that it would embrace
the appointments to the senate unless we
can at the same time suppose the
voluntary cooperation of the state
legislatures
if we make the latter supposition it
then becomes a material where the power
in question is placed whether in their
hands or in those of the union
but what is to be the object of this
capricious partiality in the national
councils
is it to be exercised in a
discrimination between the different
departments of industry or between the
different kinds of property or between
the different degrees of property
will it lean in favor of the landed
interest or the moneyed interest or the
mercantile interest or the manufacturing
interest or to speak in the fashionable
language of the adversaries to the
constitution will it court the elevation
of the wealthy and the well-born to the
exclusion and debasement of all the rest
of society
if this partiality is to be exerted in
favor of those who are concerned in any
particular description of industry or
property i presume it will readily be
admitted that the competition for it
will lie between landed men and
merchants
and i scruple not to affirm that it is
infinitely less likely that either of
them should gain an ascendant in the
national councils than that the one or
the other of them should predominate in
all the local councils the inference
will be that a conduct tending to give
an undue preference to either is much
less to be dreaded from the former than
from the latter
the several states are in various
degrees addicted to agriculture and
commerce in most if not all of them
agriculture is predominant in a few of
them however commerce nearly divides its
empire and in most of them has a
considerable share of influence
in proportion as either prevails it will
be conveyed into the national
representation and for the very reason
that this will be an emanation from a
greater variety of interests and in much
more various proportions than are to be
found in any single state it will be
much less apt to espouse either of them
with a decided partiality than the
representation of any single state
in a country consisting chiefly of the
cultivators of land where the rules of
an equal representation obtain the
landed interest must upon the whole
preponderate in the government
as long as this interest prevails in
most of the state legislatures so long
it must maintain a correspondent
superiority in the national senate which
will generally be a faithful copy of the
majorities of those assemblies
it cannot therefore be presumed that a
sacrifice of the landed to the
mercantile class will ever be a favorite
object of this branch of the federal
legislature
in applying thus particularly to the
senate a general observation suggested
by the situation of the country i am
governed by the consideration that the
credulous voteries of state power cannot
upon their own principles suspect that
the state legislatures would be warped
from their duty by any external
influence but in reality the same
situation must have the same effect in
the primitive composition at least of
the federal house of representatives an
improper bias towards the mercantile
class is as little to be expected from
this quarter as from the other
in order perhaps to give countenance to
the objection at any rate it may be
asked is there not danger of an opposite
bias in the national government which
may dispose it to endeavor to secure a
monopoly of the federal administration
to the landed class
as there is little likelihood that the
supposition of such a bias will have any
terrors for those who would be
immediately injured by it a labored
answer to this question will be
dispensed with
it will be sufficient to remark first
that for the reasons elsewhere assigned
it is less likely that any decided
partiality should prevail in the
councils of the union than in those of
any of its members
secondly that there would be no
temptation to violate the constitution
in favor of the landed class because
that class would in the natural course
of things enjoy as great a preponderance
he has itself could desire
and thirdly that men accustomed to
investigate the sources of public
prosperity upon a large scale must be
too well convinced of the utility of
commerce to be inclined to inflict upon
it so deep a wound as would result from
the entire exclusion of those who would
best understand its interest from a
share in the management of them
the importance of commerce in the view
of revenue alone must effectually guard
it against the enmity of a body which
would be continually importuned in its
favor by the urgent cause of public
necessity i the rather consult brevity
in discussing the probability of a
preference founded upon a discrimination
between the different kinds of industry
and property because as far as i
understand the meaning of the objectors
they contemplate a discrimination of
another kind
they appear to have in view as the
objects of the preference with which
they endeavor to alarm us those whom
they designate by the description of the
wealthy and the well-born
these it seems are to be exalted to an
odious preeminence over the rest of
their fellow citizens at one time
however their elevation is to be a
necessary consequence of the smallness
of the representative body at another
time it is to be affected by depriving
the people at large of the opportunity
of exercising their right of suffrage in
the choice of that body
but upon what principle is the
discrimination of the places of election
to be made in order to answer the
purpose of the meditated preference
are the wealthy and the well-born as
they are called confined to particular
spots in the several states
have they by some miraculous instinct or
foresight set apart in each of them a
common place of residence are they only
to be met with in the towns or cities or
are they on the contrary scattered over
the face of the country as avarice or
chance may have happened to cast their
own lot or that of their predecessors
if the latter is the case as every
intelligent man knows it to be
particularly in the southern states and
in this state is it not evident that the
policy of confining the places of
election to particular districts would
be as subversive of its own aim as it
would be exceptionable on every other
account
the truth is that there is no method of
securing to the rich the preference
apprehended but by prescribing
qualifications of property either for
those who may elect or be elected
but this forms no part of the power to
be conferred upon the national
government its authority would be
expressly restricted to the regulation
of the times the places the manner of
elections
the qualifications of the persons who
may choose or be chosen as has been
remarked upon other occasions are
defined and fixed in the constitution
and are unalterable by the legislature
let it however be admitted for
argument's sake that the expedient
suggested might be successful and let it
at the same time be equally taken for
granted that all the scruples which a
sense of duty or an apprehension of
danger of the experiment might inspire
were overcome in the breasts of the
national rulers
still i imagine it will hardly be
pretended that they could ever hope to
carry such an enterprise into execution
without the aid of a military force
sufficient to subdue the resistance of
the great body of the people
the improbability of the existence of a
force equal to that object has been
discussed and demonstrated in different
parts of these papers
but that the futility of the objection
under consideration may appear in the
strongest light it shall be conceded for
a moment that such a force might exist
and the national government shall be
supposed to be in the actual possession
of it
what will be the conclusion
with a disposition to invade the
essential rights of the community and
with the means of gratifying that
disposition is it presumable that the
persons who were actuated by it would
amuse themselves in the ridiculous task
of fabricating election laws for
securing a preference to a favorite
class of men
would they not be likely to prefer a
conduct better adapted to their own
immediate aggrandizement would they not
rather boldly resolve to perpetuate
themselves in office by one decisive act
of usurpation than to trust precarious
expedients which in spite of all the
precautions that might accompany them
might terminate in the dismission
disgrace and ruin of their authors
would they not fear that citizens not
less tenacious than conscious of their
rights would flock from the remote
extremes of their respective states to
the places of election to overthrow
their tyrants and to substitute men who
would be disposed to avenge the violated
majesty of the people
publius